Okay, we're rolling.
What I was saying is that we're constantly asked now about learning strategies, how people are learning, and that people are able to access this information from all over the place and all the rest of it and everything.
But it's just information.
And the question is the process of assimilating and asking critical questions and thinking and discovering.
And that, I mean, the students are going in and taking pieces of everything now.
But the idea of being able to see what is complete, which is a scholarly work, and you can't really do that on the screen.
All you're doing is searching for elements and pieces.
So if you then...
go beyond that, and you're going back to primary sources and all the rest of it to see, you know, what scholarship is.
And that's what Minor Meyer has to do.
He's interested in scholarship.
That's why I'm convinced that the libraries that will be very significant in 15 years from now will be distinguished as special recognized.
You know, it's the holdings that are somehow unique, that reflect the institution, that are characters, and they're not just reference.
They're something that is specific to the scholarship
of a time of an institution, reflecting its faculty, reflecting its presence, you know, and that's the distinction.
And other libraries will say, well, that's fine.
They have that, so we don't have to do that, so we can complement that.
Libraries have become more individual.
The big question to every academic institution now is, you know, everybody knows that technology has an impact.
Learning styles are changing, that the library is playing a critical role in education, sort of re-centered on the campuses.
More and more people will actually go to the library now than everybody talking about, you know, sort of the so-called port at every fellow,
You know, you'd access them.
It would be the demise of the library.
It would be less than just the office.
More people go to the library.
Why do they go?
They go because they need the assistance.
The librarian is critical.
They go because of a feeling of scholarship.
They go to socialize, intellectually socialize, deal with people.
We're all, you know, the library is a place.
but what makes a place when you talk to all the different universities and everybody says with all the technology don't forget when i come in this building what i want to see the books and he says this everyone you talk to and he president basically is saying with almost any exception that they what we still want to say is that
this feeling of history, of scholarship, that it's represented by the book, it's not represented by a disc.
So how do you respond to, if I would say, for instance, there's a Washington Post University just opened a year ago.
He was on record as saying that he would like a library
no larger than a telephone booth.
That's right.
If he could have no books, he'd be happy.
My feeling is that that is somebody's educational movement.
And that may be fine for the students that he is trying to teach.
I think I would say to him that that student is going to have a very, very narrow perspective to the world.
in terms of being enlightened and contributing.
I mean, you can channel someone's education and just force feed them, but what are they as a person?
How do they transcend endovia beyond some particular skill?
I mean, it has to do by serendipity, by discovery.
go into a telephone booth and discover something and know that I always wanted to be an architect.
So I'm going in and looking at architectural journals and all of a sudden I see someone studying the French Revolution and become fascinated by history.
What doesn't happen?
So, you know, the idea that information is a commodity, but knowledge isn't.
And I think the idea that people are confusing access into information and creation of knowledge.
It's precisely that.
It is that precise.
comparison that i used to start this chapter that i've been working at an institutional library and i called uh my kind of glory and he said you know he said you know there's a critical difference between information and knowledge is that the distillation of information is right right more than books
It's wonderful, but it isn't totally calculable.
That's what's wonderful.
There's a mystique.
There's a mystery.
There's a sense of awe.
inspirational, and that has to do with the place of the books and what you see.
A library is processional in sequence as you go through when you discover.
You go into a lot of libraries and bam, everything's right at you in the front door.
Well, you know, it's too much.
Have you seen the Fisher Rare Book Library at University of Toronto?
No.
That's my new sheet.
It's my new sheet.
It reminds me of the Beinecke, except with the Beinecke, everything is in the core.
This is where everything goes around, but it's like an atrium.
It's all real books that are magnificent.
That's what's interesting with Minor Meyers.
There's no question that his vision for that institution and his understanding their place in education, what is Illinois Western University, who is the faculty, who is the student, what is his aspiration, and he clearly feels that that institution needs a core of its collection, and that collection really to be valuable for the type of research and drawing the type of students has to be, it can't be all just electronic.
It has to be something as tangible.
And his feeling is, you know, what is that number?
That number is double what it is now.
How do you provide that?
He's going to, very quickly, in 10 years, 15 years, whatever, get to the same as every institution.
You get to zero growth in the sense of when you bring something in, you've got to take something out.
Doesn't mean you get rid of it, but it may not be in that simple facility.
It may be in remote storage.
I would sense out to you.
Self-world, exactly.
It's the same thing.
But every institution now is trying to figure out what is this core.
How did I find it?
What should it be?
How big should it be?
How does it represent our scholarship, our faculty?
That's the number one question.
That's the issue.
Libraries now, there's no question, we are transitional in planning.
we have the book which we say publishing rates are increasing paper information is still the best format for preservation there's no question about that Jay Lecker made a wonderful comment someone asked him in terms of preservation medium what the preservation life of electronic information is and he said in the book he said 100 to 300 years or whatever depending on the paper
You know, what's an iconic interview that anywhere between five and fifty years?
That's right.
No one knows.
And you've got to renew it every five years.
Not only renew it, but not only renew the data, but renew the machine that accesses it and the software that drives it.
Because if you don't say that, you can't get the data.
But I think what you're talking about, what interests me is that the book still, it isn't, I mean, there's a difference between a book
and someone who just gives you a facsimile of a number of pages that are placed together.
The book is a complete thought.
It's a work.
It has a permanent binding.
It's an idea.
It's something that is, with everything that is so temporal and fleeting and moving, to me, the books are secure.
I can read it backwards.
An interesting antidote.
I did work for...
John Updike, the author.
As every architect, he used to do all these projects on the side, and I was working in his house.
and I was fascinated to see, as you as an author, he would go from room to room, I think they were working on his kitchen or something, and he's very much involved in the conversation, but then all of a sudden you realize that he would just sort of be tuning up, and he'd be tuning up because he went by some great array of books.
And he would look at that, and he would watch him.
He would lose the titles, and then, absolutely unconvinced, it was at random, he'd take a book off the shelf.
He opened it, not with any idea where he was opening it, but he would be lost in those two pages he was reading.
And he would read that, and he would be going on with the conversation, and he'd read that intensely, and you could see him looking at this, you know, and ask a question.
He was totally gone, and all of a sudden, close the book up, put it back on the shelf,
So he was rooted again and then he went on with the rest of the conversation.
And I always think he's questioning very carefully about Shakespeare, about publication of his plays, or why he didn't develop it.
It's exactly what you're describing right now.
He knew I had some information that interested him.
And never mind the interview that we were doing.
He was picking my brains on this stuff.
He's brilliant.
Well, anyway, the book is something that's very special.
And I don't see, even with MIT coming up with
you know, the paperless book that you can sit on the screen and so-called flip pages on a screen.
I mean, to me, I, and this is where I worry about future generations because I don't think that, I mean, that's fascinating to use the technology, but there's something that is equally valuable.
about that book which i can turn upside down and move and feel and it's something that's very but i mean i constantly go back and pull out
things from a shelf just to look at, to think about, or to see, or just have a feeling, you know, it's this big, it's just a lot of ways, what it feels like, what the design of it is.
I mean, a book is a design work.
You specialize in libraries.
Yeah, all I do is libraries.
How did that happen?
When I joined, I've been with the firm about 25 years, and when I joined the firm, there was a fellow, a partner,
by the name of a wonderful fellow, James Ford Clapp, who had written the book with Kies Metcalf, collaborated with him on the planning of undergraduate libraries originally.
And this Jimmy Clapp sort of was continuing the tradition of libraries that started with A.J.
Richardson in his term.
And the firm has always done libraries, but Jimmy Kraft really got very much involved with academic libraries and developing that and into writing about it.
And I came and was asked to apprentice with it.
And I sort of had a choice.
And as I remember back then, our practices kind of slipped between medical, the primary practice, between medical work and academic work.
And Woodsy Academic worked 90% of his libraries.
And I chose that.
as opposed to medical.
I was an English major at the Trinity College, and I was in English and Fine Arts, and so I've always loved, and my thesis was on the poetic
The aesthetic vision of Gerard and Amy Huffman.
How was that for some reason?
When did you say that first?
No, it was 64.
I went to Bates up in Bates.
Yeah, 65.
Why don't you have a bite?
Those are good.
We learned from him and eventually take over the student leadership in sort of the academic library practice, and he retired about 15 years ago, I can't remember what.
But there's been also a tremendous change and re-emphasis in library design.
So it's been a very fortunate place to be.
And I work with a wonderful group of institutions and smaller colleges and large universities.
All of whom are, regardless whether they are a 400 person institution or 40,000, they're dealing with the same issue.
The library is the same, whether it's got 5 million volumes or 500,000 or 50,000 volumes.
It's providing a service, it's dealing with collections, it's dealing with teaching with an inquisitive mind.
How do you put these elements together?
Do you go to any particular libraries for inspiration?
The one I love is
To me, the first slide I ever show on projects is always the reading room of the Boston Athenaeum.
And to me, we renovated that.
To me, that just speaks of what a library is all about, to me, in the finest sense.
And we're working down in Sterling now.
And some great libraries and some very great people.
I mean, I think that's the...
It's really that the people that we're dedicated, you know, who are the sort of librarians today are a mass-sending group of people.
They're interested in education.
I mean, that's where it's rooted, but obviously they have a love of what the library represents as this secret knowledge, you know, and that's still very important.
Do you have a sense?
Do they have a sense of being under siege?
Is the library, is the book under siege today about this paradigm shift business going on?
I don't think, I think the librarians basically, my guess is that they do not need
that the book is under siege, that they feel that they're having to deal with a lot of infidels and a lot of people who don't understand the fact that the book will be around.
I think librarians basically feel with publication rates and all the rest of it is that the book is not going to disappear.
And what proportion it is balanced within the library and how people are combining.
I mean, the one thing that we're doing in libraries
between computing and media and standard library together.
You know, five years ago you had a library and you had a computing center and you had media independence.
And just the technology is bringing them all into one place.
And that one place is now serviced by
people who are information specialists from a computing background.
Dartmouth calls them computarians.
We have librarians, and who are these people who are information specialists in terms of
of the means of getting at that.
And they are the people who are coming.
But the fact is that from a student point of view, the student is format blind.
They don't care today where that comes from.
And they, whether it's a book, or whether it's media, or whether it's some reading-based information, and they want to be able to get it and combine it, and forward it, and use it in some way.
The library has this very, very critical role of being current, but also being, you know, the representative of the history of the past.
I don't think the library, I don't think the librarian feels, where the librarian gets very nervous is when, as in one case, someone stands up and they say, future of the library is on my credit card, or the library will only be a telephone booth.
It's not that big.
In the libraries they say, this is someone who's misformed, you know, and how do they counter with that?
Let's have a fight.
This is good.
That's good.
It's fun projects.
I mean, there's nothing more exciting than a library.
So you were an English major.
Yep.
That's interesting.
So books matter to you.
Mm-hmm.
And where did you study?
At Harvard?
I had a, I finished 64, year 65, and I was in the war and all the rest of it, and I got a, I had a fellowship to teach for a year, a secondary school at Phillips Academy, Andover, and I was, I was engaged to teach English, and I got there, and they said, gee, there's a little problem, and we got this fellow who also is in English, who's really,
Probably will stay in English and better prepared.
We see your interest has always been in art.
And you had a double major.
Would you like to teach studio art?
And so I was fantastic.
So I went through studio art.
And the fellow who was hired to teach English became a good friend just for a year appointment.
He went on to get his doctorate in English literature, head of the...
and now is head of the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York.
A guy named Charles Pierce.
Great guy.
Wonderful guy.
He is a great guy.
And I love him.
He's just a fantastic person.
So he went that way and I went into, from there I went into landscape architecture.
and then into architecture, so I did it.
I went to Harvard in those programs.
So really, you graduated college without a pale idea there should be an architect?
Oh, no.
No idea.
Well, it's interesting that you've come to this.
Yeah, liberal arts, which I believe in, which I believe fervently in.
I'm going to have a chapter in this new book, and I'm trying to figure some ways to get into the debate over the literary canon without getting into the debate.
You know what I'm saying?
Because you can't win.
So how do you do it?
So I'm doing this chapter on St.
John's College in Minneapolis, Maryland.
Great books, right.
Great books.
I spent a couple days down there.
How is that doing?
I know that they have one out in New Mexico, too.
Okay, the campus out in New Mexico.
It's the same school.
They just consider it the same school, two different campuses.
And, you know, it's like they've got a full employment, they say, and they've got a wonderful rating.
I mean, they're a five-star school.
Oh, yeah?
It's not just reading.
You know, I mean, they do math.
They take mathematics.
They take science.
They have to demonstrate efficiency in ancient reading, ancient reading.
There are no written tests, no written examinations.
Really?
It's all classroom participation.
Wow.
No grades.
It's really something.
And it's liberal arts taking to the extreme, I guess.
Now, where do those graduates go?
Where do those students go on?
How do you typify that?
I was talking to one young woman who's going to medical school.
And I said, can you do that without any... You know, we have the sciences here.
I mean, like yourself.
You came into architecture as a generalist, with a world view.
I would look at the position.
Yeah, see, people come in, they say, well, if I really want to be an architect, and I say, well...
That's great.
The best way to do it is to go through the warts.
You can pick anything you want, and then specialize afterwards.
But obviously, a great majority of other people still are those who, at the age of 18, decide they'll be an architect, and then they go to a good school and get a five-year program of architecture.
That's right.
Well, we think alike.
How long have you been working on this book?
Four years.
Is that what the gestation period did they do research about this period?
This draws a lot on that.
I'm a general writer.
There's no reason why I felt I had to go write about books in the library.
I felt like I hadn't done the whole thing.
It's like a physician who graduates medical school,
Just does one surgery and then puts.
I spent so much time learning this field.
It just seemed to me that there was more I could do.
What a time in the field.
Everyone is speculating as to what the future is.
Nobody knows.
That's the whole thing.
I'm getting into everything.
Preservation.
I went to Leipzig in Germany where they're leading the world in the preservation of paper.
Really?
i went up to cornell where they're leading the world in the digitization that we did that library up there the cross library oh then you did that one yeah special questions yeah you did that yeah i love that yeah we did the law library that was an interesting now you had problems with a lot of ground water out there oh yeah yeah but you can handle that
But I mean, really, underground with all that water coming down off the coast.
You've got all these books.
See, I know them.
That's right.
But Cornell is a very interesting situation.
They have determined, the trustees have told them, that they will not have, that's it.
Now, they've got 6.8 million books.
But they said five million is all we're ever going to allow now in Central Campus.
Central Campus, right.
Central Campus.
Right.
So what happens when somebody presents you with that figure, let's say?
Now you have to take that into account.
This is it.
Five million books.
The access is going out to the Apple Watch, and we'll decide what books go there.
But now you have a number to work with in your mind here?
Yeah.
What happened?
Well, what's interesting is that you look at any collection today, and you see that of that five million volumes, I don't know what Cornell is at, but traditionally a collection, 30%, 40% of that are background-bound journals.
And you begin to think of
the different types of questions.
How much is in government documents and how people actually, do they browse it?
How do they get at it?
How are they using it?
How can it be brought to them?
The big issue today is document delivery.
If somebody can search and find something, can I bring that to me?
Can I bring not only that book, what's adjacent on that shelf?
Can I bring what's on the five shelves around it?
Can I look visually
And you can do that now.
You can do it electronically so that when I browse and I get a citation and I see, oh, yes, there it is.
It's whatever work it is.
I now can, I think there is the ability electronically to be able to look up and see for the so-called cyber shelf and find what is adjacent in that collection.
Now, what falls on that shelf?
and that's the beauty of browsing the whole point of going into collection is to discovery you know how much you look for one thing but discover something else and you cruise and you look i mean it's like upside going yeah well they're going to try to do that electronically well they won't do it but where it comes into play is remote access i mean if i've got five million volumes and that's constantly being the most used the most
most relevant to the research of that faculty at a time, and then their back issues, backgrounds, or things that they're taking out are, you know, the JSTOR project at Mellon, things like that, and social sciences.
Do you work with that, the JSTOR?
Well, most of the institutions subscribe to that.
I mean, that's an interesting concept.
Absolutely.
I was down in, I'll let you meet for a second.
I was down in Vanderbilt, so it's a good talk down there, and I met the librarian Paul German that day.
He is Jake's court, and he also buys a lot of serials.
He's very interesting.
Last year,
They did a study of how many hits they had on journals for which they also had the hard copy.
And how many hits they had where they had electronic and hard copy?
Yeah, so Joe's store you can go in and get the electronic.
Right, right.
Made everything in the background.
They've been buying these journals, the hard copy journals as well.
So they wanted to see where there was overlap.
Where did they find it?
Where students, they had 2,300 kits, the items for which they also had the hard copy.
And I said, well, that's good.
We're going to make a decision there, actually.
I said, we're going to cancel some subscriptions.
They said, yeah, yeah.
I'll be canceling some subscriptions.
Yeah.
If they're doing it electronically, then they're not using the hard copy.
I think that in the future, I don't think there's much doubt about it.
Well, it ain't going to survive.
Maybe that's good.
Because we're not talking about the degree of law.
I don't know so much.
When you think of UCLA, I think UCLA has 95,000 titles, and the largest, I think it's the largest, second largest, and the largest in many universities.
It's an interesting figure, and you get it from UCLA, and the university, and that covers all of their libraries.
What does that mean in terms of dollars and titles?
Yeah, I think we did a plan out there, and I just can't remember a number of years ago, but I was just astounded, but it was in the 90s, and I think it was a very large research university, very esoteric and all the rest of it, but how do you manage the total of how much of that, and how much of that is just, you know, the dollars invested, how much can be electronic?
a lot of that journal material is not going to be found in a traditional way.
I think that computer or databases, it does really allow you to enable you to find things that you would never find otherwise.
This is happening to me.
For this book,
And I mean, my last book was published three years ago.
I'm finding things that I can't even believe I never would have found.
That's what we've seen at college, universities, everywhere.
What they're all saying is the students are now coming to the library much better prepared.
They've done a lot of initial searching, preliminary work.
They're doing a lot.
Perfect example.
From here, I'm going up to the FNA.
At this time, I'm going over to White House.
I've already searched the databases.
You might know what you want.
I have a whole list of books that I have.
And I know they're sheltering pages.
And I know whether or not they've been checked out or not.
Because I can even check, I can determine circulation.
Well, see, the mistakes that a lot of the...
college and universities were making a number of years ago were saying, well, because students get access remotely, they won't go to the library.
On the contrary, more going to the library, asking more complex questions, and it's twofold.
One, because they need the help of the library.
to provide the interface.
And because there's no question, the other thing that we did a study out of the library at USC a few years ago.
Pardon?
You did the term with the study?
Yeah, well, we did work with USC about
how students were learning, trying to define what the new library was.
Is this a published study?
No, we did it.
We developed a program.
We did it with Peter Lyman.
I interviewed Peter for this book.
Pardon?
Well, see, the concept out there was in Berkeley now.
No, he used to be at USC.
He was at USC, and this was the first library we did, which was a sort of new concept of the teaching library.
And the center of that teaching library is Computing Commons.
It's the concept of the gateway by which a library... Computing Commons.
And the idea is that it's an area in the building which is all designed around...
the collaborative use of technology to access information in a highly serviced environment that is serviced both by computing and by libraries.
So you have reference library staff and you have computing library.
Both the people are together in the same environment, assisting the researcher in this sort of gateway.
The idea is coming in, being able to use technology,
to begin to discover, to find, to combine media, to really advance themselves.
And the idea is from there, they will go to any of the other 13 libraries in USC or to go anywhere in the world and essentially access information.
So Peter's idea, this is sort of the gateway concept.
And that really is true.
But the big part of all of that was that we found in the programming effort out there is that students, this whole collaborative nature of advancing knowledge, students work together.
obviously many, many more group study spaces, small seminar spaces.
So we're designing carrels, which are designed, a technology carrel, a lot of them are designed for two people to sit together to use the same single piece of technology with a third person able to stand up and join them.
We found that as soon as you do that,
the space for four people you have two independent thoughts and conversations and it breaks down three people you can control the acoustics and you can control the effort so we designed these cows which one person may use but more largely the other usc there are two people there and this is the whole idea they're there they're accessing they're discussing they're talking they're helping one another they're learning so this whole
Collaborative learning style is absolutely the way people are learning today.
Well, I thought you had a war at the university that's largely, and they have what's known as a protected budget, so they buy books.
I mean, a lot of places think they're growing more money into technology, and so where do they cut them from?
They kind of didn't look at it.
Well, up there, they have a protected budget for books, mandated by law, because they are kind of a face-to-face national library.
The piece of a week now, in 1997, recirculated 7 million items.
That's $60,000, $10 million.
But they also have all the stuff, too.
The piece of a week that's exactly what you're saying right now is that
the more technology they use the more print they use i mean we're finding that one the more technology the more print the more print they also use as you said my vision for the future is maybe we're getting more technology as opposed to more books i think we're going to wind up getting more of everything right that's what's happening everybody looks back when we went into microforms right microforms was really going to decrease acquisition rates
It did nothing.
It's just a supplement to it.
Well, that's right.
But also, you know the ARL, the ARL statistics.
They do show, however, that the average volume of students that has gone down over the last 10 years.
That's a fact.
They are requiring a few of books when they did 10 years.
Oh, yeah.
And, you know, are they getting rid of books, too?
Yeah, I mean, no, they are.
I mean, I think it's...
I was shocked to hear him say, not shocked, but I agree.
He said he believes in benign attack as a form of preservation.
In other words, letting books that are worthless.
Let them go?
Yeah, let them go.
That's what they do in Cornell.
They have a policy which they call Bayes' deterioration.
And that's Ann Kenney.
Which is, basically, we made a decision on this particular book,
We're not going to enact any invasive procedures to save it.
We're going to make it comfortable and let it die a natural death.
When it dies a natural death, it goes to the dump, and when a scholar comes in and finds a citation for that, I bet you Cornell can get that in some other place.
Maybe, maybe not.
But if Cornell would have determined that's a single copy... Well, you see, what's the last copy for them?
What we are finding is that some places aren't getting rid of things without ascertaining whether or not that's a last copy.
Right.
Well, you can determine it very easily.
You'll see I'll see that of this.
Right.
You know, it's just the last copy.
So these are all very interesting issues.
And that's why I think libraries will be distinguished as more as special and unique collections.
Not only did everything, it won't be that everything in that collection per volume is unique, it's the fact that someone collected certain, that there is a certain attitude to collection, focus, and a specialty.
And I think we'll see that
I mean, that's what draws faculty to institutions.
And also the depth and the strength of the collection.
The number is still better.
Why does the ARL publish these figures every year?
Why is it that Harvard is absolutely insisting that he's maintaining not only dramatics, but overwhelming dramatics?
Because they're the best.
But Rudenstein has come out and said,
We can't have everything.
He has said that we will have to recognize the fact that other institutions will have holdings that we cannot have.
Yeah, but that's always been the case.
You've heard of the Farmington Plan that has developed back in the 50s.
No.
They basically carved up the world.
Yeah.
That's right.
He did with the Camille Rouge and all that stuff.
Yeah.
Oh, was that the Farmington Plan?
It was the Farmington Plan.
I researched that.
I haven't had that in the book.
Yeah.
I'm going to have a chapter also on that.
They're going to be fascinating.
Immigre libraries, for instance, under the discussion of Sarajevo, and how an international team is trying to get materials outside of the country to try and somehow replicate what they want.
They're not going to be able to do it.
In the case of Cambodia, they had everything at Cornell.
Everything was destroyed, and they reseated it.
Better probably than it was when it was destroyed.
Last year, Harvard returned to the Republic of Georgia, the archives of that country, which has been here for 60 years.
And now they return it.
Well, because they left.
And the deal was, we're going to keep these archives until it's an independent Georgia.
So finally they went back.
That's actually quite interesting to say that the role of a company's libraries is to... It goes on and on and on.
They're trying to establish their history.
When there was no Poland.
Poland was broken up.
The National Library of Poland moved past.
It's the people who don't check Poland eyes.
It's still here.
You're still on the way.
So Chopin went here and... I'm all set.
I'm going to check this.
I love this whole idea of emigrating and knowledge traveling.
Cardinal Bessarian goes to Venice, my wife and I will Venice see much.
And then also going to libraries and history, you see.
You know, maybe I can talk to you when I'm doing this.
Oh, yeah.
To me, are you familiar with a book called The Care of Books?
Yeah.
It's a famous, famous book.
I'll give you a citation.
Oh.
And it's more than the care of books where he goes and he studies all the fittings and all these libraries.
Oh, really?
I'd like to know that.
Oh, and it's a really, very difficult book.
I've got a copy of it.
I'll give you a citation on it.
I'd like, if you could send me that and the piece you did.
You have to see this book, and you can see it after the afternoon.
Oh, I will.
I'll go look at it.
If you give me what I did.
But he goes, he measures fittings, how they do bookcases, how they tallow.
Oh, I'd like to see that.
Chain Library.
There's another book which came after this.
which I also have, it's called the Chain Libraries of England, and he expresses his debt to this earlier.
You see, when you decide that you're going to have the Chain Library, you also determine those skulls are going to be there.
Now you determine where the window's going to be, because they also don't have any natural light.
So are we going to stand, or are we going to sit down?
What do you know about this library in Alexandria?
What they're doing now?
I don't know.
I've heard different pieces, but I don't know nothing specifically about it at all.
Pardon?
Right, right, right.
Yeah, I don't know.
Some people describe it as a blue logo.
Who knows?
I don't know anything about what the collections you know.
So what happens if you sit down with librarians and administrators and you get a sense of the vision of the university?
Yeah, that's the key.
That's everything.
I mean, the thing is that, you know, what is Illinois Wesleyan doing?
They have a library, all right, fine.
Okay, but where is that institution going?
You know, and it's president, and it's trustees, and what's its culture?
You know, where is its place?
You know, how does the library support that?
How does the library advance that?
What can we do when we have the same tools, you know, dealing with collections and technology and staff and reading space, you know, but what, you know, the library is, thanks a lot.
I got it.
Spencer, that's what I remember.
No, no, no, no, no problem.
The, you know, the library, the more and more everyone understands the need to have an intellectual senate.
And the interesting thing is that an intellectual center is no longer, it's not passive, it's active.
Something happens there.
You know, you're seeing and you're doing and you're advancing yourself.
And so the idea is, you know, why does someone come to a college or university?
What is the, you know, now I can get my degree remotely, you know, and I can do it at wide distance learning.
Yeah, wide distance learning.
What's the value added?
Part of that value added is what happens when people get together and begin to explore and discuss and be stimulated by
and be refocused and shape their values.
It's called education.
We tell our children, you know, gee, what should I say?
I don't care.
Just be there.
Once you get excited about it, get impassioned by something.
Get into something, you know.
So the library plays a very real role.
I mean, it is an intellectual community center.
It's there, everything, and the library kind of gets pushed off to the side there for a few years.
Well, they're not in common libraries anymore.
That's right.
Learning resources.
What happens when you see that?
That's the University of Michigan, for instance.
Yeah, yeah, they're whatever it's called.
I haven't seen it.
I'm going out actually a week after next to go see that.
But, I mean, I think it's just one aspect of how information is sustainable.
But there's still something...
There's something that is unique and centering about the place of a library.
Students tell me 60% of a library's usage is not using library materials.
Everybody says, well, we now have study rooms in every dormitory.
We have computing access.
and then you go to talk to these institutions, you're right.
You mentioned Rice and Princeton.
Yeah, Rice and Princeton both of them.
Where do they study?
You know, if you really talk to the students, you know, and where a little scholarship takes place, it's not in their rooms.
They access information.
They can prepare themselves.
to go to that place of scholarship.
And where is the place of scholarship?
It is the library.
The library is the laboratory of the classroom?
Yes, it is.
Peter Lyman's thesis.
The library is an extension of the classroom.
In the business environment, we talk about the breakout space.
Where does the classroom get extended?
You go and just take notes and memorize something?
Well, that doesn't do anything.
Where do you go?
take that idea and discuss it.
Further, well, the library.
So we have now places in the library for meetings, for discussions.
You know, wonderfully at Princeton, the vast majority of the teaching at the graduate level takes place in the library, briefly, with the collections and to expose that level of scholarship.
So it's a very
It's a very special place.
It's going to be a very, very sad day, I think.
You know, it's when colleges have libraries assigned to a phone booth, then education is just a commodity.
You know, you're just forcing someone through, you get so many grades, you get them out and give them an expert in.
That's a little bit hard to do with Helen Benley.
And the graduates over at the Bowman Library.
They take out a huge manuscript.
I mean, I get a piece of pimples.
Absolutely.
I do when you talk about it.
I mean, it's all exactly.
And I said, you think of that.
He said, because they have to know where it comes from.
That's right.
You know, there's a history of an idea.
Yeah, and then at Cornell, they go into special collections, and they bring out all the, you know, extraordinary precious books.
And they work as students, undergraduate students we talked about, as graduate students.
How do you handle these things?
Pick up the first full wheel.
There's a guy at Princeton.
We're doing some work down there, and I'll have to get it for you.
We're doing some consulting on the libraries down there.
Are you working on the coaching library?
Pardon?
The Lloyd's coaching library?
No, that's within Firestone.
That's all done.
We're having a chapter on coaching.
Oh, are you?
That's a great story.
I'll tell you.
Oh, I like that.
But we were introduced to a faculty member down there who teaches
i think he's in history and we were introduced to him because he is a real uh believer and user of the library and he teaches a course on books and reading well i have his bibliography i have his course i got it
And so I have it in the office.
If I can put my hands on it, I'll fax it to you.
But I took it out to Rice with me, to the librarian at Rice.
I said, annotate this for me.
I said, I'm fascinated by it.
It's mostly in the 16th, 17th century, the history of the book.
But they teach a course on it.
What's his name?
I'll get it for you.
Remind me.
Princeton University is the guy who teaches the course on the history of the book.
And so I went to the Special Collections Library, and I was talking about it, and I said, gee, I've met him.
It was fascinating.
And they said, oh, I teach him that.
I participate in that, and one of my papers or books is part of the reading list.
And so I said, where do I get the reading list?
And I said, that's just wonderful.
So I got the reading list.
Is it a big reading list?
No, it's four pages.
I'd love to have it.
Yeah.
No, it's fun.
I might even find some stuff there.
Oh, yeah, some of the stuff.
And you'll see when I fax it to you,
you'll see that there's an annotation in it that says, Jeff, this is a classic.
You ought to look at this.
You ought to read that.
That's the librarian who's a wonderful guy at Rice who comes from Columbia University.
You mentioned that I should come.
Yeah, he's coming here, and if there's a chance to get together,
I think he's a very... Are they building the library?
We're expanding the library.
He is a historian, PhD in history, as well as a librarian.
Chuck Henry, Charles Henry.
And he's a...
You know, this is where I'm out of my league because I'm, you know, I'm an architect designing libraries, but I listen to all these people.
He's just a very... Do you do very well for libraries?
Oh, yeah.
Any place.
I mean, I've been through, you know, through Europe and... Have you been to the Calendulas?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, absolutely, yeah.
And then in Europe and...
I don't like any questions, books, great libraries.
Great libraries.
I'll send you a citation.
I think there's fax a couple of title pages to you.
Yeah.
No, I mean, I'll give you this.
Yeah, I'll give it to you right now.
I'll fax the title pages of some of these books.
Yeah.
If you could do that with us, I mean, my great joy is getting, the greatest thing that ever happened to me is I had a fellowship after graduate school.
And I was over in Europe for a year.
And the fellowship was not enough money to live on, you know.
And you had all year.
My proposal was to study indigenous architecture in Finland and Norway.
And so I was going to spend the winter there.
But I've been in Scotland.
and my wife, and we met a Don from Oxford, and she asked what we were doing, and she said, well, you know, we're going to try to get over to Norway, and we're going to kind of huddle down there, and it's going to tell you this, and she said, well, and I said, we're going to read, and so we asked her, I said, if you were in, and we literally were in a little cabin, you know, an island, and it's necessarily south of Oslo, I said, if you had to spend an entire winter there, what would you read?
And so she gave us this reading list, which is wonderful.
And so it was fantastic.
You know, all the works of C.P.
Snow and a variety of things.
And I can't even remember.
I mean, this is 25, 30 years ago.
But it was, I mean, that is the greatest thing for someone to say, well, gee, if I had four months
Here are the things, not that I haven't read, but here are the things I would like to reread.
Here are the things that someone should read.
That's fascinating.
I asked Harold Boone this question.
I said, well, what would you take?
And he said, well, get anything.
He said, the Bible.
Take the Bible.
The Bible one, speak spiritually.
He said, no, it's difficult.
But he went through a list for me.
Desert Island books.
Yeah, so this is the same thing.
It's the same thing.
Yeah, yeah.
you know, what the books you would expect.
But the one that he said you'd have to have is the King James Bible.
That's interesting.
That is true.
Well, I think that's, to me, the idea.
I'm going to tell Echo.
I had to do that.
That's right.
Even though Echo will be in this new book, too, isn't it?
Maurice Sendak.
The thing I like, who?
Who?
I can't wait to read it.
I read a wonderful quote by Barton Gregorian.
And when he said, and I don't have it, I have it, I have it written down someplace, and he said there's no university.
I haven't written it before.
No university?
No, no university is greater than a library.
And there can be no great university without a great library.
I quote it right in the second paragraph.
Good, good.
It's solid live time.
Okay, well, there it is.
That to me, I quote him.
That to me is so important.
And if you begin to think of it, it's actually true.
But now let's define what a great library is.
And it varies by the institution.
It's not formulaic.
It's not numbers.
Pardon?
It's not numbers anymore.
I talk to people and say, the ACRL and all the rest of it still rate the libraries by their number of seats and their holdings and all the rest of it.
But it's more the issue we're trying to get people to meet.
It's how information is used, and how often it's used, and what is the information you can make available in whatever format is more significant than necessarily what you're physically holding in a university.
So Cal Poly, one of the new science library out there, engineering library at Cal Poly just done, and they were very proud of the number of kits they have.
And that was as important as certainly coming in and being able to access information.
So the library is a whole different point.
Are some of your projects in here?
Sorry, should I ask you about some of your projects?
No, they're all in there, yeah.
Any favorites?
Any ones?
They're all like the children.
No, I think the interesting thing, the one that's not in there that is really interesting is that we're doing the Library of the Dartmouth right now, and that's fascinating.
There's a real progression.
in the libraries that we started with Peter Lyman at USC then we just finished the library down in Emory and you're beginning to see this merging of libraries and computing and media coming together in different ways and then we did it a little bit different way at North Carolina Charlotte but we're really taking that another step forward at Dartmouth now in a major way major integration of bringing we're taking the culture of
computing, which is very, very significant in Dartmouth.
Dartmouth was one of the premieres in computing, in academic computing on a campus.
Whereas at Emory and USC, we're taking all of it and bringing it into the library.
And we're integrating it into the library.
That's the whole concept of
of essentially an academic environment of one-stop shopping that the student the faculty member they don't care you know the idea and this is an interesting characteristic of students today if a student comes in and and and looks up a citation and and then what that format is how do they get at that how do they transfer that information if they simply if they go to the in the library they say well we can't answer that you really got a problem with your software
be able to get it out of transfer you now have to go over to this building students don't do it so go back now so what so what happened was that that emory usc was just an idea and a piece coming in to see what would happen and when we brought computing in we brought it in a service environment and we brought and computing itself stayed out of the building in terms of the professionals but some of the staff came in
And we set this up, and we did a little experiment in the Bahini Library.
We had a reference desk and a computing desk.
Students don't care.
They would go to the computing people and ask them content questions, and they would go to the reference desk and ask them how questions, rooting questions.
And so you put it together, and then we went to Emory, and there were Jim Johnson and Joan Galgals.
with Billy Fry, who's a, you know Billy Fry?
Billy Fry is one of the, he's the provost there, and he's one of the great, when you talk about people around this country, of one of the, F-R-Y-E, Fry, and one of the great,
supporters and believers and exponents of the meaning of the library, that name comes up, Billy Pry.
What we did is that we went down and they have the Canada Library, which is just like the old one, done by the same architect at Cornell.
Then they had
the old library which is the undergraduate library on the campus the research library on the graduate library and they said gee we really got to bring in computing and media in some way so let's bring it in on the old library and expand that and leave the research library and when we looked at it we said no that's that's not right what we need to do
is build between these two buildings, build a whole new center that becomes the entrance, goes to the research library and the graduate library, and becomes the gateway.
Same concept.
How do we bring people in now, bring in computing, and provide a service environment that has media, computing, and reference all together?
It works because I was down there and a fellow in media, and it's very, very sophisticated what they do, and he came up and he said, well, he said that he had a good testimony to why this works this morning.
He said, we had an undergraduate student out there, and she had been working for two days and had all this information, all these different formats, and she went up to do the research in the academic power, came back, she lost it.
Okay.
Well, computing people couldn't solve it by themselves.
Reference couldn't solve it by themselves.
And media, because the whole man couldn't.
But all three of us were there, and we solved it.
So all the disciplines are there.
They're all working in a collaborative basis.
We'll see in the years.
And we've planned Emory so that even though the culture of computing
of those people that came in is distinct, and they have their own space.
And this was interesting to us, because we came in, we said, oh, they'll all be together, and they'll all be intermingled.
Well, as soon as you bring them together, everybody wants to define their own territory.
You've still got a very old culture in the library and a new culture in computing, and nobody wants to lose their identity.
But the fact is that over time,
you're going to see, depending on where library schools are going, you're going to see much of this really merging.
Exactly.
But what happened is then we get to, so we did that, so we saw more of an integration at Emory, and then at Dartmouth, we're seeing the total integration.
Dartmouth is taking a very sophisticated, which is computing, which is not only just
is taking the software development, the servicing, the reproduction, the selling of computers, the repair kit, everything is coming right into the libraries.
One stop shopping.
It's very random.
They're saying they don't care whether a student comes in, they come in with a laptop, they don't know.
The student doesn't know that they've got a content issue, a software issue, a hardware issue.
But they want to bring them into a place which is an intellectual center, and they can facilitate that.
So what do you say to the old Luddites?
It's going to work out.
Are you optimistic?
Oh, absolutely.
I've never been more optimistic in the future of the library.
Mainly because the library is moving forward.
The library is rather than fighting technology and saying, well, we're only going to take that segment of it.
They're saying that they're embracing it and saying that we know.
The faculty member at Harvard were doing the library at the Harvard Medical School.
And we were trying to figure out who the users were and why people were going to use the library.
Same old question.
Are they going to come in the library now?
And we had a wonderful senior faculty member, senior researcher, way up there.
Typical wife came in and sat in a meeting, and we said, how do people use the library?
What is your use of library?
And he said, I don't go in the library.
And we spoke.
But I use the library more than I ever know.
So he said, what?
He said, all of my research.
He said, I now can do it two hours, what it used to take me to do in two weeks.
So he said, I send all my postdocs over.
And now all these postdoctoral students.
Those are the people.
They go in with very specific demands and citations.
And so we have what we call search and seize.
It's a mentality of people coming in.
Particularly when you talk about a medical environment, the time issue is so critical of the time of that information.
It's currency.
And these students are coming in because the faculty member now in his research
is seeing all of these different things iconically and said, find the article on that.
Compare it to the article on that.
So they go in, and it's the library now that is able to take these post-docs and get all this information in all these different formats, help them assimilate and get it, take it.
or transfer it directly to the lab or whatever.
I mean, it's this whole document delivering.
It's fascinating.
What we haven't discussed, and I don't know if you're going to discuss it regularly.
We haven't discussed this at all, the appearance of the library.
Tell me about the artistic statement.
The library, I mean, I think when we go back and say that there is a whole lot of sense of place, and the permanence of the library is still very important.
I mean, years ago, somebody said,
was the president of the college, and we asked, talked about, well, what is it when you go in the library?
And he said, all things being equal.
He said, I want it.
There must be a sense of awe.
some sense of inspiration.
It can't just be coming in and Barnes, they weren't Barnes and Nobles at the time, but the idea, it just can't be easy access.
There has to be something that is transcending to something more, that I'm in the face of something that is bigger than I am, that's inspirational, that is a
that is a gateway, that it is an opportunity for me.
There's got to be something that is invigorating, not diminishing.
To me, there's a very fine balance of finding your place in the universe, coming in and saying, well, this represents knowledge.
Think of the efforts and what is compiled and is here, but it is something that you're trying to design a scale that somebody
It feels comfortable in that.
They're inspired by it, but they say, this is something that I can be a part of, and I can use, and it's comfortable, and I can develop within it.
It's not one hook, it's a half a million.
That's right.
So how do you do that?
I don't care if it's an undergraduate library, it's the same thing with minor liars.
But as you work and you work your way up within this building, the top of this building is a very, very special leading room.
I think you want to be able to see what the library is.
The library is not just service and technology.
It's service and technology and collections.
It's a combination of things.
That means that when you enter the library, my point is that from a planning point of view, you want to get
to the center of the library horizontally and vertically as quickly as possible.
Therefore, to enter the corner and find you is very difficult.
So how do you get to that center?
It's very hard.
And then when I'm approaching that center, how can I see more than just on one floor?
So therefore, we say, how do we make visual connections?
I don't have to have all great amount of collection on the first floor, but can I see it above?
How do I get to that?
What pulls me up within the building?
I know this is a level of activity, and then it's going to get quieter and quieter as I go up.
more rarefied, more speculified.
You know, if they've been in the New South, it's still publicized.
I've seen.
I haven't been in it yet.
Any comments on what you've heard about it?
Well, you hear all bits and pieces.
I mean, I've seen the plans and seen the bodies, but you have to experience this space.
I can't.
I'd love to see that.
As I said, the acoustics are wonderful.
Nice.
And acoustics are wonderful.
You can hear a pinch of them.
Oh, is that right?
Oh, I mean, yes.
Oh, I see that.
Well, that's the thing, indeed.
If you don't hear books, I was discouraging it.
They couldn't fit them.
I mean, to me, that must be a problem.
Yeah, because it's not fair, but to me, there was a mismatch between what, I mean, if you read it in a, whether this weekend in your time.